

the farm at least until we have the results of the air-samples around the farm.We will do following research:1.  Interviews with owners to get better insight in clinical picture and course of thedisease.2.  Contact tracing of people that have been on farms3.  Contact tracing other mink farms4.  Make maps/floorplans of the farms with locations of diseased and dead animals5.  Euthanise (or collect dead animals) at least 20 mink per location for virus isolation to get insight in transmission routes (human- animal, animal-animal and animal-human). We need at least 20 strains for that, maybe more. We will do this weekly as long as we have clinical signs6.  Serological survey of the farms, repeat in 3 and 6 weeks, 60 samples per location to show prevalence of 5% with 95% confidence.7.  Collect dust and air samples outside the barns to check for virus.8.  Clinical inspections for farms close by.Based on these results we will see whether we need to do further things or change thepolicy. We will pay a lot of attention to communication. Main message will be that this is anAll the bestMinistry of Agriculture, Nature and Food QualityPO Box 20401 2500 EK The Hague The Netherlands Visiting Address : Bezuidenhoutseweg 73, The Hague Telephone + 31 70  Fax + 31 70  Cellphone +31 6 Email @minlnv.nlDit bericht kan informatie bevatten die niet voor u is bestemd. Indien uniet de geadresseerde bent of dit bericht abusievelijk aan u is gezonden, wordt u verzocht dat aan de afzender te melden en het bericht te verwijderen. De Staat aanvaardt geen aansprakelijkheid voor schade, van welke aard ook, die verband houdt met risico's verbonden aan het elektronisch verzenden van berichten.This message may contain information that is not intended for you. If youare not the addressee or if this message was sent to you by mistake, you are requested to inform the sender and delete the message. The State accepts no liability for damage of any kind resulting from the risks inherent in the electronic transmission of messages.













Van:Aan:" (FVST)"Onderwerp:FW: compleet pakket Engelse vertalingen Kamerbrieven en Persberichten nertsenbedrijvenDatum:dinsdag 8 september 2020 11:49:33Bijlagen:News item of 19 May.docxLetter of 19 May.docxLetter of 25 May.docxLetter of 28 May.docxLetter of 1 June.docxNews item of 1 June.docxLetter of 3 June.docxNews item of 3 June.docxHi Herewith I send you the complete set of letters to parliament and the press releases again, this is until the beginning of June. I will collect the new information which is in Dutch also for you, we will get it translated in English but that takes a bit of time. BestVan:  Verzonden: maandag 8 juni 2020 14:32Aan:  CC:  Onderwerp: compleet pakket Engelse vertalingen Kamerbrieven en PersberichtennertsenbedrijvenDag ,Zoals afgesproken stuur ik jullie alle vijf vertaalde Kamerbrieven en drie vertaalde Persberichtenm.b.t. de nertsenbedrijven toe. Het betreft de Kamerbrieven van 19/5, 25/5, 28/5, 1/6 en 3/6 en de Persberichten van 19/5, 1/6 en 3/6. Ze staan ook op Government.nl.Letter to parliament on status of the research into COVID-19 on mink farms 19 May 20https://www.government.nl/documents/parliamentary-documents/2020/06/08/letter-to-parliament-on-status-of-the-research-into-covid-19-on-mink-farms-19-may-20Letter to parliament on status of the research into COVID-19 at mink farms 25 May 2020 https://www.government.nl/documents/parliamentary-documents/2020/06/08/letter-to-parliament-on-status-of-the-research-into-covid-19-at-mink-farms-25-may-2020Letter to parliament on status of the research into COVID-19 at mink farms 28 May 2020 https://www.government.nl/documents/parliamentary-documents/2020/06/08/letter-to-parliament-on-status-of-the-research-into-covid-19-at-mink-farms-28-may-20Letter to parliament on status of the research into COVID-19 at mink farms 1 June 2020 https://www.government.nl/documents/parliamentary-documents/2020/06/08/letter-to-parliament-on-status-of-the-research-into-covid-19-at-mink-farmsLetter to parliament on additional measures for mink farms 3 June 2020 https://www.government.nl/documents/parliamentary-documents/2020/06/08/letter-to-parliament-on-additional-measures-for-mink-farms-3-june-20De vertaling van het recente OMT-Z advies  wordt gedaan voor het RIVM zelf. Deze verwachten of ik jullie eind van de dag of anders morgenvroeg te kunnen nasturen.Vriendelijke groet,CommunicatieadviseurDirectie Communicatie Ministerie van Landbouw, Natuur en Voedselkwaliteit Bezuidenhoutseweg 73 | 2594 AC | Den Haag | A-noord 2 Postbus 20401 | 2500 EK | Den HaagM +31 6 E@minlnv.nl W rijksoverheid.nl/lnv
AVT20/LNV130925  1  New results from research into COVID -19 on mink farms  New research  findings  in the ongoing investigation into COVID -19 at mink farms suggest  there has been a transmission of new coronavirus from mink to human. The investigation  has also shown that mink with COVID -19 can be asymptomatic. Based on  this new  information , agriculture m inister Carola Schouten and health minister Hugo de Jonge are  introducing new measures.   'These new  findings  have a major impact on mink -farm owners and staff and their families, as well  as on local communities,™ said Ms Schouten. ‚I'm in close contact with all those involved.™   The virus that causes COVID -19 mutates relatively quickly. These changes to its genetic code can  be tracked. By comparing the genetic codes of the virus in different animals and people, scientists  can create a  ‚family tree ™  for the  virus and gain more insight into  when and where people and  animals  were  infected. This type of  tracking  has been done in the case of  infected mink and people.  The virus found in one staff member on a mink farm showed similarities to  that  found in the mink  on that farm. Based on this comparison and the position of that form of the virus in the family tree,   the  researchers concluded  that it is likely that one staff member at an infected farm has been  infected by mink.     In order to  clarify  this finding,  resea rchers  are  now  continuing to map the genetic family tree of the  virus in infected people in the area surrounding the mink farm in question. This will allow them to   build as complete a picture as possible.    According to the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) the risk of the   virus being transmitted from mink to human outside mink sheds remains negligible. RIVM made  this risk assessment previously ,  after no samples of air and dust collected outside mink sheds were  found to contain any trace of the virus.  Measures  Based on the new  information , the government is introducing new measures on top  of th ose  already in force. Mink at all farms in the Netherlands will be screened for antibodies. In the interest   of staff members™ health, it is important to gain a clear picture of  the situation at all mink farms.  Screening will be compulsory and will be  coordinated by the Netherlands Food and Consumer  Product Safety Authority (NVWA).  If a case is found at a mink farm ,  the same measures will be introduced as at other infected farms  and staff members will be advised to use personal protective equipment at  work. Furthermore, no  visitors will  be admitted to mink sheds on infected farms. Agriculture minister Carola Schouten had  already imposed a reporting obligation on mink farm owners, veterinarians and staff at research  institut es. Th at obligation will now be expanded, so that all symptoms point ing  to COVID -19 must  be reported to the NVWA. T his is in addition to an existing ban on the removal of animals and  manure from infected farms, a measure aimed at stopping  the virus spreading to other farms.   Farm cats    This ongoing  research  has revealed a close similarity between the viruses found on two of the  infected mink farms. There are several possible explanations for this. On one of the infected farms,   antibodies to the virus were found in three out of 11 farm cats. It is therefore important to   examine the potential role of farm cats in transmi tting  the virus. Farm cats are feral or semi -feral  cats that live out -of- doors on a farm. Pending further research, mink -farm owners are advised to  ensure that cats cannot enter or exit the site.   Pets  It is  known that pets can contract COVID -19. The risk of people being infected by their pet remains  small. RIVM™s existing advice regarding COVID -19 and animals remains unchanged: keep pets  indoors if anyone in your household has  COVID -19 -like  symptoms and the animal may have been  infected.  If you are in any doubt or if your pet has  severe symptoms ,  always contact your vet.  RIVM™s advice can be found in full at  https://www.rivm.nl/en/novel -coronavirus- covid -19/pets .  
AVT20/LNV130925F  Initial investigation results: infections at  three more mink farms  News item | 01 -06-2020 | 16:30  Mink infected with coronavirus have been identified at three more farms. A suspected   outbreak at a fourth farm is currently being investigated. Health  minister Hugo de Jonge and  agriculture minister Carola Schouten have reported these findings, based on the results of   mandatory screening currently being conducted for all mink farms in the Netherlands, in a   letter to the House of Representatives.  The Outb reak Management Team for Zoonoses (OMT -Z) has been asked to consider these  new findings in formulating an advisory report on the risk that SARS- CoV -2 will continue to  circulate on infected mink farms and thus, in time, become a permanent source of infectio n or  reinfection for humans and animals. Ministers De Jonge and Schouten will use the advisory   report to decide on Wednesday whether additional measures are needed.  Various options are currently being worked out in detail in anticipation of the OMT- Z™s  rep ort. All conceivable measures will be considered, including the possibility of culling all  mink animals at infected farms. Public health is always the main consideration.  Since 26 April 2020, infected animals have been found at a total of six mink farms, w ith eight  locations, situated in the municipalities of Gemert-Bakel, Laarbeek, Deurne and St Anthonis.   The suspected outbreak is on a farm in Venray. Measures were introduced at COVID -19- infected mink farms as soon as the first cases were confirmed at the  end of April. These  measures were later extended to all mink farms in the Netherlands. According to the National   Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), the risk of the virus being   transmitted from mink to human outside mink sheds remains negligible. The findings of the   recent investigation have not changed this assessment.    
AVT20/LNV130925H    1  Press release of 3 June 2020 on the letter to parliament on additional measures for mink farms   Government adopts advice to cull mink on infected farms    All mink on farms where coronavirus infection has been confirmed will be culled, starting   this Friday. Infection has also been confirmed at the farm in Venray, bringing the total to   7 infected farms at 9 locations. Agriculture minister Carola Schouten and health minister  Hugo de Jonge base their decision on the advisory opinions of the Outbreak Management  Team for Zoonoses (OMT -Z) and the Administrative Coordination Committee on Zoonoses  (BAO -Z).     These advisory opinions point to the fact that the virus can circulate on mink farms for a long time,   thus presenting a risk to human and animal health. The culling of animals on all infected farms   should be completed in the course of next week. The government is also exploring the possibility of  a one -off, volunt ary cessation scheme for mink farmers who want to terminate their operations in  the short term.     By culling mink on infected farms, the government aims to prevent mink farms from becoming a  virus reservoir and a threat to public health. Mink kits are born  in spring. Previously infected  mothers will pass on antibodies to their kits. This protection decreases over time, so that the kits  become more vulnerable to coronavirus infection as they grow older.    Measures on non -infected mink farms  The measures introduced for all mink farms in the Netherlands earlier this week remain in force.  They include a transport ban and a ban on admitting visitors to mink sheds. On top of these  measures, the existing hygiene protocol will be tightened up very shortly, and will also address the   issue of coronavirus testing for farm workers. In light of fur farming being banned in the  Netherlands as of 2024, the government is also looking into a one -off, voluntary cessation scheme  for mink farmers who want to terminate their operations in the short term.           

Van:Aan:)Onderwerp:DK minkvariant virusDatum:woensdag 4 november 2020 06:52:42Bijlagen:Assessing cross-neutralization activity of spike mutants_afo.docxATT00001.htm
1 Assessing cross -neutralization activity for SARS -CoV -2 spike mutants  SSI 02. November 2020,  , senior  researcher  SSI has so far identifed seven unique mink mutations/changes in the spike protein the sars -cov-2 variants in mink and infected peiople with contact to the farms. We have tested the first variant  from farm -1 and here we have tested a variant with  four simul taneous changes in the spike. This  variant is dominating farm -6, 9, 10, 14, 18 (CHCNR 99768, 10967, 92288, 91966, 97712) and in the  present experiments we isolated this same mink variant virus from a human patient and used it to  evaluate if this virusvaria nt was sensitive or not to neutralizing antibodies (antisera) from a  collection of convalescent individuals.  Virus culture  A mink and  human clinical sample containing t he SARS -CoV-2 virus  with the  spike mutations  of interest  is identified. The virus  is gro wn on mammalian cells, a monkey kidney cell line named VeroE6 , from  the clinical sample in two subsequent rounds . Prior to use,  nucleotide sequencing of the isolated virus  is used to confir m that the cell culture process did not  introduce  additional mutati ons that were not  present in the  original  clinical sample.  To date, all viruses evaluate d for  cross -neutralization of antisera  were identical in the spike protein compared to that  found in  the clinical sample.  Neutralization assay  in Biosafety -3 laboratory  To determine if a mutant virus has reduced sensitivity to  existing  neutralizing antibodies, a  predetermined amount of  the mutant  virus is mixed with serially diluted sera from patients that were  infected with SARS -CoV-2 early in the Danish epidemic.  The same sera is mixed with the same amount  of virus from a strain that does not have the spike mutations.  The virus and sera are incub ated for 1  hour to allow the antibodies in the sera to bind to the virus.  The virus/antibody mix is added to VeroE6  cells and incubated for 24 hours.  Those antibodies that neutralize the virus will block its ability to infect  cells and thus lead to a lower  amount of virus present in the cells.  After 24 hours, the amount of virus  in the cells are measured by fixing the cells to the cell culture plate. This fixation process exposes the  virus proteins produced during the infection of the cells. One of these pr oteins is the SARS -CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein. In a standard ELISA targeting the nucleocapsid protein, the amount of virus is  determined. Using appropriate controls for each virus evaluated, a 50% cut -off value is calculated. The  serum dilution at the 50%  cut-off value is reported as the neutralization titer.  Results  Convalescent sera from  9 people (10 serum samples were tested, but one was inconclusive, so only 9  are reported ) previously infected with SARS -CoV-2 early in the Danish epidemic were used to ev aluate  cross -neutralization activity against a mutant virus. Each serum sample was tested in duplicate with  the mutant v irus and the reference virus (without  spike mutations).  Serum sample   Neutralisation Titer  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Reference virus  39 68 54 67 186 >1280846 186 291 Mutant virus  28 5 9 30 67 >1280606 54 177 % Difference  -28% -93% -83% -55%-64%0% -28%-71%-39%
2 The mutant virus resulted in reduced neutralization activity for 8 out of 9 sera tested  when compared  to a virus that lacks the spike mutations . The effect varied between the sera and ranged from a  reduction of 25% to as high as 93% neutralization activity.  In conclusion , this  indicate that mink virus variants with four of the seven  identified mink -mutations/changes in the   spike protein show less sensitivity  (resistance) for neutralizing antibodies  from persons with  previous covid -19 infection.  It is important to note that these results are  preliminary and are in the process of being  confirmed in a n independent repeat experiment, but  suggest that mink - antibodies. 
Van:Aan:)Onderwerp:FW: Confidential information - compensation Dutch mink farmersDatum:vrijdag 20 november 2020 11:30:35Van:  Verzonden: zondag 15 november 2020 16:03Aan: @mfvm.dk'  CC: @minbuza.nl' ;   ;   Onderwerp: Confidential information - compensation Dutch mink farmersDear It was nice talking to you. This afternoon we spoke about the mink sector and the situation in Denmark and The Netherlands. Because of this exceptional situation we are willing to share some information with you about the way we are intended to compensate mink farmers to quit three years earlier (in 2021 instead of 2024). I would like to draw attention to the fact that these are our provisional ideas of how to deal with this early closure of the sector, there are no official decisions made. For that reason, I will ask you to keep this information confidential. The compensation we are still working on at this moment is based on the fact that companies quit three years earlier. We will pay them a compensation for those three years.  The compensation elements are all based on databases with business information of the agricultural sectors of the Netherlands of the last 5 years. The mink sector is a quite homogenic sector, with respect to the production process, costs and deliveries. -compensation for redemption of buildings, machines, tools and other costs (costs that a mink  farmer has to make, even when there are no minks at the farm). This is our biggest post and will depend on the number of minks at the farm; -compensation for ending contracts with regular staff (a percentage of total costs);  -compensation for income for a period of X months, because entrepreneurs have to find new  income. The amount of income is based on general salary in animal husbandry. -compensation for minks that are used for breeding, in consideration related to the current  situation and our transport ban; -the compensation will be reduced with an X percentage, because of the socially acceptable  risks. At some farms there are no animals anymore, because of Covid-19. We made some difference in the calculation of their compensation (because those farmers already have been compensated for their breeding material). The framework for granting the compensation will be based on our national jurisprudence and practices with respect to compensation in case of legitimate action by the government. .In addition to this I think it is good to mention that the reason for the compensation lies in the fact that the mandatory permanent closure is considered to be regulation of possession in the sense of Article 1, First Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. With the compensation the required ‚fair balance™ is achieved. This permanent closure by law should not be confused with the other measures we take with respect to the COVID-19 contaminations, for instance the clearing of infected farms. Those measures are temporary and based on other legal competencies. Hopefully this information will be helpful for you,Yours sincerely,Beleidsmedewerker dierlijke duurzame ketens (team DDK)-Policy officer sustainable husbandry -  Directie Dierlijke Agroketens en Dierenwelzijn (DAD) T: +31 6 | E:  @minlnv.nlMinisterie van Landbouw, Natuur en Voedselkwaliteit Bezuidenhoutseweg 73 | 2594 AC Den Haag
Van:Aan: Onderwerp:VS: DK comments - Reply to the World Animal Health Organisation regarding notification of SARS CoV2 inanimalsDatum:vrijdag 20 november 2020 17:43:02Bijlagen:OIE EU SARS-CoV-2 November 2020 clean.docFyiFra:  Sendt: 20. november 2020 17:31Til: ' Cc:  Emne: VS: DK comments - Reply to the World Animal Health Organisation regarding notificationof SARS CoV2 in animals Dear Best regards, Fra:  <@bmel.bund.de> Sendt: 20. november 2020 16:17Til: @fvst.dk>Cc: LIFE.3@consilium.europa.eu; Referat 323 <323@bmel.bund.de>;@diplo.de;@fvst.dk>; @fvst.dk>; @fvst.dk>; Central Krisestab (FVST) <FVST-krisestab@fvst.dk>;@fvst.dk>; @fvst.dk>;<@fvst.dk>; @ec.europa.eu; Unterabteilungsleiter 32<UAL32@bmel.bund.de>; Referat 322 <322@bmel.bund.de>Emne: Re: DK comments - Reply to the World Animal Health Organisation regarding notificationof SARS CoV2 in animalsVon meinem iPad gesendetAm 20.11.2020 um 15:39 schrieb <@bmel.bund.de>: Dear 
Von meinem iPad gesendetAm 20.11.2020 um 14:12 schrieb @fvst.dk>:Dear Based on the information currently available on transmissibility,severity, immunity and cross-border spread, the overall level of risk to human health posed by SARS-CoV-2 mink-related variants can be determined as:˜low for the general population and moderate for medically-vulnerable individuals, which is no different to other SARS-CoV-2strains (not related to mink);˜low for the general population in areas with a high concentration ofmink farms and moderate-to-high for medically-vulnerable individualsliving in the same areas;˜moderate for non-medically vulnerable individuals with occupationalexposure and very high for medically-vulnerable individuals withoccupational exposure.Fra:  Sendt: 20. november 2020 13:53Til: ' <@bmel.bund.de>Cc: LIFE.3@consilium.europa.eu; Referat 323 <323@bmel.bund.de>;@diplo.de; @fvst.dk>; 

+45  fvst.dk/kontaktMinistry of Environment and Food of DenmarkDanish Veterinary and Food Administration l Stationsparken 31-33 l  2600 Glostrup l Tlf. +45  l  fvst.dk/kontakt l www.fvst.dk
